When you change your neural network,
it's important to initialize
the weights randomly.
For logistic regression, it was okay
to initialize the weights to zero.
But for a neural network of initialize
the weights to parameters to all zero and
then applied gradient descent,
it won't work.
Let's see why.
So you have here two input features, so
n0=2, and two hidden units, so n1=2.
And so the matrix associated
with the hidden layer,
w 1, is going to be two-by-two.
Let's say that you initialize it to
all 0s, so 0 0 0 0, two-by-two matrix.
And let's say B1 is also equal to 0 0.
It turns out initializing the bias
terms b to 0 is actually okay,
but initializing w to all 0s is a problem.
So the problem with this
formalization is that for
any example you give it,
you'll have that a1,1 and
a1,2, will be equal, right?
So this activation and
this activation will be the same,
because both of these hidden units
are computing exactly the same function.
And then,
when you compute backpropagation,
it turns out that dz11 and
dz12 will also be the same
colored by symmetry, right?
Both of these hidden units
will initialize the same way.
Technically, for what I'm saying,
I'm assuming that the outgoing weights or
also identical.
So that's w2 is equal to 0 0.
But if you initialize
the neural network this way,
then this hidden unit and
this hidden unit are completely identical.
Sometimes you say they're
completely symmetric,
which just means that they're
completing exactly the same function.
And by kind of a proof by induction,
it turns out that after every single
iteration of training your two hidden
units are still computing
exactly the same function.
Since [INAUDIBLE] show that dw will
be a matrix that looks like this.
Where every row takes on the same value.
So we perform a weight update.
So when you perform a weight update,
w1 gets updated as w1- alpha times dw.
You find that w1, after every iteration,
will have the first row
equal to the second row.
So it's possible to construct
a proof by induction that if you
initialize all the ways,
all the values of w to 0,
then because both hidden units start
off computing the same function.
And both hidden the units have
the same influence on the output unit,
then after one iteration,
that same statement is still true,
the two hidden units are still symmetric.
And therefore, by induction, after two
iterations, three iterations and so on,
no matter how long you
train your neural network,
both hidden units are still
computing exactly the same function.
And so in this case, there's really no
point to having more than one hidden unit.
Because they are all
computing the same thing.
And of course, for larger neural networks,
let's say of three features and
maybe a very large number of hidden units,
a similar argument works to show that
with a neural network like this.
[INAUDIBLE] drawing all the edges,
if you initialize the weights to zero,
then all of your hidden
units are symmetric.
And no matter how long
you're upgrading the center,
all continue to compute
exactly the same function.
So that's not helpful,
because you want the different
hidden units to compute
different functions.
The solution to this is to
initialize your parameters randomly.
So here's what you do.
You can set w1 = np.random.randn.
This generates a gaussian
random variable (2,2).
And then usually, you multiply this
by very small number, such as 0.01.
So you initialize it to
very small random values.
And then b, it turns out that b
does not have the symmetry problem,
what's called the symmetry
breaking problem.
So it's okay to initialize
b to just zeros.
Because so
long as w is initialized randomly,
you start off with the different hidden
units computing different things.
And so you no longer have this
symmetry breaking problem.
And then similarly, for w2,
you're going to initialize that randomly.
And b2, you can initialize that to 0.
So you might be wondering, where did this
constant come from and why is it 0.01?
Why not put the number 100 or 1000?
Turns out that we usually
prefer to initialize
the weights to very small random values.
Because if you are using a tanh or
sigmoid activation function, or
the other sigmoid,
even just at the output layer.
If the weights are too large,
then when you compute
the activation values,
remember that z[1]=w1 x + b.
And then a1 is the activation
function applied to z1.
So if w is very big,
z will be very, or at least some
values of z will be either very large or
very small.
And so in that case, you're more likely
to end up at these fat parts of the tanh
function or the sigmoid function, where
the slope or the gradient is very small.
Meaning that gradient
descent will be very slow.
So learning was very slow.
So just a recap, if w is too large,
you're more likely to end up
even at the very start of training,
with very large values of z.
Which causes your tanh or your sigmoid
activation function to be saturated,
thus slowing down learning.
If you don't have any sigmoid or
tanh activation functions throughout your
neural network, this is less of an issue.
But if you're doing binary classification,
and your output unit is a sigmoid
function, then you just don't want
the initial parameters to be too large.
So that's why multiplying by 0.01 would
be something reasonable to try, or
any other small number.
And same for w2, right?
This can be random.random.
I guess this would be 1 by 2
in this example, times 0.01.
Missing an s there.
So finally, it turns out that sometimes
they can be better constants than 0.01.
When you're training a neural
network with just one hidden layer,
it is a relatively shallow neural network,
without too many hidden layers.
Set it to 0.01 will probably work okay.
But when you're training a very
very deep neural network,
then you might want to pick
a different constant than 0.01.
And in next week's material,
we'll talk a little bit about how and
when you might want to choose
a different constant than 0.01.
But either way, it will usually end
up being a relatively small number.
So that's it for this week's videos.
You now know how to set up a neural
network of a hidden layer,
initialize the parameters,
make predictions using.
As well as compute derivatives and
implement gradient descent,
using backprop.
So that,
you should be able to do the quizzes,
as well as this week's
programming exercises.
Best of luck with that.
I hope you have fun with
the problem exercise, and
look forward to seeing you
in the week four materials.